#summary Description of the process for contributing to this project.
= Introduction =

If you're looking to contribute to Mutability Detector in some way, this guide will let you know the best way to go about it.

== For users of Mutability Detector==
If you use Mutability Detector in your own unit tests, you can help out in the following ways:
  * feedback - any and all feedback is welcome, and should be sent to the [http://groups.google.com/group/mutability-detector mailing list]. Whether you think Mutability Detector sucks, or is the bee's knees, I want to hear about it!
  * reporting issues - if you find a bug, from getting false positives or false negatives, or the API not letting you do what you want to do, file an issue on the open [http://code.google.com/p/mutability-detector/issues/list bug tracker]


== For potential developers of Mutability Detector==
If you want to hack on the code, to fix a bug that's holding you back, or just to scratch an itch, you can get involved by sending a patch. If it's a feature or a bug fix, it should be accompanied by an issue in the bug tracker.

===Checkout code from version control===
You can check out the code from:
  http://mutability-detector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/MutabilityDetector/trunk/MutabilityDetector/

You should also check out the 'client' project that's used to help alert of breaking API changes, or any other regressions. That can be checked out from:
  http://mutability-detector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ClientOfMutabilityDetector/trunk/ClientOfMutabilityDetector/

For now, you should check these out anonymously, as the user 'mutability-detector-read-only'. I recognise this is a bit painful, but if it's just too darn painful for contributing give me a nudge and I'll look into making it easier to work with.

===Building code===
With both projects checked out, after you've made your change, and with the Maven command 'mvn' available, you should be able do the following:

{{{
cd MutabilityDetector  
mvn install  
cd ../ClientOfMutabilityDetector  
mvn test
}}} 

And have both run successfully.

===Coding standards===

Currently Mutability Detector has a high level of unit test coverage, and patches should come with unit tests. For things like formatting, and naming, please try to be consistent with what you see around the rest of the code base - I believe it's important for readability to keep the code consistent. I'll most likely apply my own formatting settings to your patch anyway, so you shouldn't have to worry too much about that. I'm quite willing to just receive any kind of patch you throw at me and take the time to fix it up in whatever way it needs.

Any questions or comments, or if this help guide is woefully insufficient, please get in touch, preferably on the [http://groups.google.com/group/mutability-detector mailing list].




